Claim storage initailized (#261)
gear-tech/wiki: docs/examples/claim-storage.md

---
sidebar_label: Claim Storage
---

# Claim Storage

## Introduction

This smart contracts example created by Gear represents a Simple Claim storage.

It is a simple storage operating with Claims. A claim is a basic strucure which states some fact about a subject. A claim can be issued by a subject, or any other issuer on behalf of the subject (e.g. a university might issue the claim that a subject has successfully graduted).
Whenever a claim is issued it MUST be signed by an issuer (or a subject in case he issues it on behalf of himself).

> Every other contract user can verify any claim with his public key and a signature or check the claim data using one of the claim set's hash (more detail bellow).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every other contract user can verify any claim with his public key and a signature or check the claim data using one of the claim set's hashes (more detail below).
```

pub type PieceId = u128;

/// ClaimData represents an internal data stored inside a claim.
#[derive(Decode, Encode, TypeInfo, Debug, Clone, PartialEq)]
pub struct ClaimData {
    /// Set of hashed data (e.g. BTreeSet::from([city], [street])).
    pub hashed_info: BTreeSet<[u8; 32]>,
    /// Date of issuance of this claim.
    pub issuance_date: u128,
    /// Validation status of the claim.
    pub valid: bool,
}

/// Claim is a main object stored inside the identity storage.
/// Consists of the claim data and all the public keys and signatures.
///
/// # Requirements:
/// * all public keys and signatures MUST be non-zero arrays
#[derive(Decode, Encode, TypeInfo, Debug, Clone, PartialEq)]
pub struct Claim {
    /// Issuer's  public key (e.g. who issued the claim). Can be equal to subject keys
    /// if the subject issues any claim about himself.
    pub issuer: PublicKey,
    /// Issuer's signature with the issuer keypair.
    pub issuer_signature: Signature,
    /// Subject's public key.
    pub subject: PublicKey,
    /// Map of verifiers PublicKey -> Signature
    pub verifiers: BTreeMap<PublicKey, Signature>,
    /// Internal data of the claim
    pub data: ClaimData,
}
```

> Internally claim contains an issuance date, a validity status and a set of hashed data. The set is used the following way. Say, one wants to store his address: Russia, Moscow, Nikolskaya street, 3, 15. This is okay if the users wants to be able to verify the whole address. But if a user wants to only verify that he lives in Moscow? Should there be another claim created? The answer is no. A user simply breaks his address and hashed every value seprately and than passes it as a set. The check procedure is done against the whole set, so one can now verify he lives in Moscow without disclosing the full address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internally claim contains an issuance date, a validity status, and a set of hashed data. The set is used the following way. Say, one wants to store his address: Russia, Moscow, Nikolskaya street, 3, 15. This is okay if the user wants to be able to verify the full address. But if a user wants only to verify that he lives in Moscow? Should there be another claim created? The answer is no. A user simply breaks his address and hashed every value separately and then passes it as a set. The check procedure is done against the whole set, so one can now verify he lives in Moscow without disclosing the full address.
```

    }

    /// Check the claim's internal data.
    ///
    /// # Requirements:
    /// * all the public keys and signatures MUST be non-zero.
    /// * `verifier` - MUST differ from the claim's subject or issuer.
    ///
    /// # Arguments:
    /// * `piece_id` - claim's id.
    /// * `subject` - subject's public key.
    /// * `hash` - the hash to check against.
    fn check_claim(&mut self, subject: PublicKey, piece_id: PieceId, hash: [u8; 32]) {
        // TODO!: Rewrite in rust
        let mut status = false;
        if self
            .user_claims
            .get(&subject)
            .expect("The user has no claims")
            .get(&piece_id)
            .expect("The user has not such claim with the provided piece_id")
            .data
            .hashed_info
            .contains(&hash)
        {
            status = true;
        }
        msg::reply(
            IdentityEvent::CheckedClaim {
                subject,
                piece_id,
                status,
            },
            0,
        )
        .expect("IDENTITY: Error during replying with IdentityEvent::CheckedClaim");
    }
```

### Testing

> Though the contract is not that complicated itself, we strongly suggest you check the tests. In there provided tests we show a user actually interacts with the contract (e.g. keypairs/signature and hasing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though the contract is not that complicated itself, we strongly suggest you check the tests. In there provided tests we show a user actually interacts with the contract (e.g. keypairs/signature and hashing).
```
